# Minimizing Page Weight

Something I took careful consideration of when developing this website was
the page weight. Page weight just refers to the total byte size of the page
which can include the HTML, CSS, JS, images, videos, and whatever other
files or services that need to be loaded for the page to function. 

Shifting more of my development work to my Thinkpad X61T, a laptop from 2007,
made me realize just how resource intensive a lot of sites on the web
actually are.

The median page weight has increased from just under 500kB in 2010 all the
way to 2600kB in 2024. That's over five times the amount data being
transferred per page with most of it consisting of images and JS. The result
is longer load times and greater technical requirements.

This can be pretty damaging to users who are working on slower networks or have
lower end hardware. Especially when a lot of these services don't need to
warrant so many resources.

Because of this, I made it a goal for myself to minimize as much unnecessary
weight as possible while still mantaining a good level of functionality and
visual appeal. This involved sticking to pure HTML and CSS as much as possible.
To the point that the site doesn't even include any JS.

I even left out using a custom font, specifically IBM Plex Mono, because
even that added an extra 30kB of weight to the site. That's three times more
data than the average 10kB of data per page that the site sits at right now.

And while sure, the site doesn't have any cool or flashy interactivity, at
the end of the day it gets the job done. The site has all the functionality I
want and still looks visually appealing (at least to me).

Things will probably get more complex once I decide to host the site myself
instead of on Github pages but a lot of that will likely come from the web
server itself and adding a system to handle and serve these articles better.

But until then, I like the way things are set up now and I hope to keep things
as simple and minimal as possible for as long as possible.
